tools/web-flasher/README.md, before:

# Smart Grind By Weight - Web Flasher

A browser-based firmware flashing tool for the Smart Grind By Weight ESP32 coffee grinder.

## Features

### 🔌 Initial Setup (USB)
- First-time firmware installation via ESP Web Tools
- Uses Web Serial API for direct USB connection
- Perfect for factory setup or recovery
- Powered by [ESP Web Tools](https://esphome.github.io/esp-web-tools/) for browser-based flashing

### 📶 OTA Updates (Bluetooth)
- Over-the-air updates for installed grinders
- Web Bluetooth API for wireless connection
- Full firmware updates (no delta compression)
- Progress tracking and status updates

## Browser Support

- ✅ **Chrome** (Desktop & Android) - Full support
- ✅ **Microsoft Edge** (Desktop) - Full support  
- ❌ **Firefox** - No Web Bluetooth support
- ❌ **Safari/iOS** - No Web Bluetooth support

## Usage

### For Initial Setup
1. Open the web flasher in Chrome/Edge
2. Go to "Initial Setup (USB)" tab
3. Enter firmware URL from GitHub release
4. Click "Flash via USB" - opens ESP Web Tools
5. Connect device via USB and flash

### For OTA Updates
1. Ensure grinder is powered and BLE enabled
2. Go to "OTA Update (BLE)" tab  
3. Enter firmware URL from GitHub release
4. Click "Connect to Device"
5. Click "Flash Firmware" when connected

## Firmware URLs

Use direct links to firmware files from GitHub releases:
```
https://github.com/jaapp/smart-grind-by-weight/releases/download/v1.0.0/smart-grind-by-weight-v1.0.0.bin
```

## Technical Details

### BLE Services Used
- **OTA Service**: `12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789abc`
- **Data Transfer**: `87654321-4321-4321-4321-cba987654321`
- **Control Commands**: `11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555`
- **Status Updates**: `aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-eeeeeeeeeeee`

### Protocol
- Based on existing Python BLE implementation
- 512-byte chunks for firmware transfer
- Status notifications for progress tracking
- Command structure: START → DATA_CHUNKS → END

## Development

The web flasher is automatically deployed via GitHub Pages when pushed to main branch.

### Local Testing
```bash
# Serve locally (required for Web Bluetooth HTTPS requirement)
python3 -m http.server 8000 --directory tools/web-flasher
# Open https://localhost:8000 (note: may need self-signed cert for HTTPS)
```

## Security

- All communications use Web Bluetooth's built-in security
- Firmware is downloaded directly from GitHub releases
- No credentials or keys stored locally

Commit message:

feat: modernize web flasher asset handling

tools/web-flasher/README.md, after:

# Smart Grind By Weight - Web Flasher

A browser-based firmware flashing tool for the Smart Grind By Weight ESP32 coffee grinder.

## Features

### 🔌 Initial Setup (USB)
- First-time firmware installation via ESP Web Tools
- Uses Web Serial API for direct USB connection
- Perfect for factory setup or recovery
- Powered by [ESP Web Tools](https://esphome.github.io/esp-web-tools/) for browser-based flashing

### 📶 OTA Updates (Bluetooth)
- Over-the-air updates for installed grinders
- Web Bluetooth API for wireless connection
- Full firmware updates (no delta compression)
- Progress tracking and status updates

## Browser Support

- ✅ **Chrome** (Desktop & Android) - Full support
- ✅ **Microsoft Edge** (Desktop) - Full support  
- ❌ **Firefox** - No Web Bluetooth support
- ❌ **Safari/iOS** - No Web Bluetooth support

## Usage

### For Initial Setup
1. Open the web flasher in Chrome/Edge
2. Go to "Initial Setup (USB)" tab
3. Enter firmware URL from GitHub release
4. Click "Flash via USB" - opens ESP Web Tools
5. Connect device via USB and flash

### For OTA Updates
1. Ensure grinder is powered and BLE enabled
2. Go to "OTA Update (BLE)" tab  
3. Enter firmware URL from GitHub release
4. Click "Connect to Device"
5. Click "Flash Firmware" when connected

## Firmware Sources

The firmware list is pulled straight from GitHub Releases—no files are stored in this repo. If you need the exact asset mapping, see `DOC.md`.

## Technical Details

### BLE Services Used
- **OTA Service**: `12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789abc`
- **Data Transfer**: `87654321-4321-4321-4321-cba987654321`
- **Control Commands**: `11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555`
- **Status Updates**: `aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-eeeeeeeeeeee`

### Protocol
- Based on existing Python BLE implementation
- 512-byte chunks for firmware transfer
- Status notifications for progress tracking
- Command structure: START → DATA_CHUNKS → END

## Development

The web flasher is automatically deployed via GitHub Pages when pushed to main branch.

### Local Testing
```bash
# Serve locally (required for Web Bluetooth HTTPS requirement)
python3 -m http.server 8000 --directory tools/web-flasher
# Open https://localhost:8000 (note: may need self-signed cert for HTTPS)
```

## Security

- All communications use Web Bluetooth's built-in security
- Firmware is downloaded directly from GitHub releases
- No credentials or keys stored locally
